= Qusion
Qusion makes AMQP[http://github.com/tmm1/amqp] work with your webserver with no fuss. It's a simple library/plugin with three features:
* A set of monkey patches that sets up the required callbacks and/or worker threads so that AMQP will work with Passenger, Thin, or Mongrel. WEBrick, SCGI, and Evented Mongrel are experimentally supported, but not heavily tested.
* A Channel Pool. You can cause problems for yourself if you create new channels (with MQ.new) for every request. The pool sets up a few of these when your app starts and reuses them.
* YAML configuration files. If you're using Rails or Merb, create config/amqp.yml, then fill in the details for development, test, and production. Use Qusion.start() in your environment.rb file and you're good to go.

= Getting Started
First you'll need the amqp library and a working RabbitMQ installation. This entails:
* Install Erlang for your platform
* Install RabbitMQ for your platform
* (sudo) gem install amqp
Ezmobius has a good walk-through on the readme for nanite[http://github.com/ezmobius/nanite/] if you haven't done this yet.
== Install Qusion
Start by installing Qusion as a plugin:

  script/plugin install git://github.com/danielsdeleo/qusion.git

Next, in your config/environment.rb, add something like:
  
  # Add eventmachine and amqp gems to config.gem to get config.gem goodies:
  config.gem "eventmachine"
  config.gem "amqp"

  # Start AMQP after rails loads:
  config.after_initialize do
    Qusion.start # no options needed if you're using config/amqp.yml or the default settings.
  end
  
And that's it! This will set up AMQP for any ruby app server (tested on mongrel, thin, and passenger). Now, you can use all of AMQP's functionality as normal. In your controllers or models, you might have:

  MQ.new.queue("my-work-queue").publish("do work, son!")
  
and it should just work.

= Channel Pools
It's considered bad practice to use MQ.new over and over, as it creates a new AMQP channel, and that creates a new Erlang process in RabbitMQ. Erlang processes are super light weight, but you'll be wasting them and causing the Erlang VM GC headaches if you create them wantonly. So don't do that. Instead, use the channel pool provided by Qusion. It's simple: wherever you'd normally put MQ.new, just replace it with Qusion.channel. Examples:

  # Create a queue:
  Qusion.channel.queue("my-worker-queue")
  # Topics:
  Qusion.channel.topic("my-topic-exchange")
  # etc.
  
This feature is a bit experimental, so the optimal pool size isn't known yet. The default is 5. You can change it by adding something like the following to your environment.rb:

  Qusion.channel_pool_size(3)
  
= Configuration
If you're using rails or merb, you can put your AMQP server details in config/amqp.yml and Qusion will load it when you call Qusion.start(). Example:
  
  # Put this in config/amqp.yml
  development:
    host: localhost
    port: 5672
    user: guest
    pass: guest
    vhost: /
    timeout: 3600
    logging: false
    ssl: false
  
  test:
    host: localhost
    port: 5672
    ...
  
  production:
    host: localhost
    port: 5672
    ...

If you're too hardcore for rails or merb (maybe you're using Sinatra or Ramaze), you can still use a YAML config file, but there's no support for different environments. So do something like this:

  # Tell Qusion where your config file is:
  Qusion.start("/path/to/amqp.yml")
  
  # Your configuration looks like this:
  application:
    host: localhost
    port: 5672
    ...

If you just want to get started without configuring anything, Qusion.start() will use the default options if it can't find a config file. And, finally, you can give options directly to Qusion.start() like this:

  Qusion.start(:host => "my-amqp-broker.mydomain.com", :user => "me", :pass => "am_I_really_putting_this_in_VCS?")


= Bugs? Hacking?
If you find any bugs, or feel the need to add a feature, fork away. You can also contact me directly via the email address in my profile if you have any quesions.

= Shouts
* Qusion's code for Phusion Passenger's starting_worker_process event was originally posted by Aman Gupta (tmm1[http://github.com/tmm1]) on the AMQP list[http://groups.google.com/group/ruby-amqp]
* Brightbox's Warren[http://github.com/brightbox/warren] library provides some similar functionality. It doesn't support webserver-specific EventMachine setup, but it does have built-in encryption and support for the synchronous (non-EventMachine) Bunny[http://github.com/celldee/bunny] AMQP client.

dan@kallistec.com
